Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2016-11-05T01:14:21-04:00

====== Contemplations of Crenshaw ======
Created Saturday 05 November 2016

The Nature of Crenshaw will never exactly be revealed. The direction and purpose of this shortvol is to illustrate the paralells of this fantasy world with the world of the reader. It will be assumed that Crenshaw is an intelligent creature able to confer language through writing and is a male of at least middle age.

Each entry in his diary is a Micro story. Each micro will convey some aspect of where Crenshaw is in the world and how he interperates it. Some of the entries will be cross referenced with other micros to be later developed. The world that Crenshaw lives in will referred to as "Anna", for which he has a great love, and indeed speaks to it as though an old lover. A regular reference to "Kiim" will appear and not be expounded upon, as he assumes everyone knows what that means(//The diminutive world; The world of insects and small creatures//). Many of the creatures of the "Kiim" domain will converse with him in form of common tongue, but at no point will Crenshaw deliberatly point out the difference between their species, leading the reader to wonder what species Crenshaw really is. 

The method of desemination of information, converyed by crenshaw, will be in the various forms parallell to the ones from our world. Most astronomical observations will have a fancifull misinterpretation, followed in most cases by a contemplation on the reactions of those he confers with. 
 

#423 - When I looked up into the sky there was a great burning over the peak known as Karreb-Nah. This dragon in the sky pierced the veil of night and shown a green light upon the whole land. This lasted for three days. Travelers called it a dark omen. Priests of Utem-Nah call it "The Candle of Ramesh", meaning also also an omen of woe. One known as Bulog sat with me on the first night and shared a vision he had just six days prior. In this vision he saw a great river made of stars flowing over and in between two great mountains in the east known as Kerlong and Eh-Ma. To his people these mountains were sacred and attributed with being the birthplace of all celestial beings of their world, and indeed the seat of all power of creation in the world. He was very carefull to explain that the power of creation is manifold in the universe, but each home has a hearth, and these mountains were our worlds hearth. Continuing his story he said the river of stars that flowed between the two peaks split the shadow cast by the mountain. It slithered and presented like a snake, shedding a skin of darkness. The vision ended when the mighty river-snake rose up and stopped before Bulog. This celestial creature then opened its eyes and the world exploded with brilliant light as it spoke to Bulog's mind. A single word was shared before dissapating and the vision ended. I asked him after a very long pause what the single word was. He shuddered and waved his hand at me and said he would tell me in the morning. We had been talking so long, and the green light was so dominant that we had stayed up much longer than expected. We both laid next to the small fire, I had built while listening to his vision-story, and slept there under the green light of a wayward dragon. Though I knew he would be gone before I awoke, I did not press him or attempt to stop him when I heard him slowly creep away in the morning. I laid there in the warmth of the morning sun thinking about this vision and what the Word could be when I heard a long drawn out sound that formed itself into a word in my mind a few minutes after it ended: "Run". I still don't know if that was the word or if there was something dangerous going on, but i gathered myself fairly quickly and started off. Run where though? From what? This encounter will haunt me for a long time I think. Against all logic however... I have decided to walk towards the Candle of Ramesh and maybe see the river of stars for myself. 
