Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-09-20T21:45:57-04:00

====== Denimog ======
Created Thursday 20 September 2018
@ademog @precipitant 
See: [[Ade Mog]]
	The Denimog is the next precipitant of the energy left over from the original Ade Mog. Each of the Denimog species is a hybrid species of Ade Mog and a creature developed by the Brothers of Metal. The Serpent Type and the Boar Type are among the most powerful and difficult to detect. These creatures are both and Advanced Kiim, and a celestial Precipitant at the same time. These creatures tend to develop relationships with other major archetypes and create interconnected social advancement. This influence has directly impacted the speed and breadth of the technological and scientific, even social, standards of each species involved. 

	The Only Way is a techique developed by a monk named Djit Nama Samier, or Lord Namas (as they always include their last name's first letter in their short name, or 'Issolwe De" - 'developed name'). It is the only known way to detect a Denimog without error. It involves only one item and one question.
	The Key. Made from celestial metals. in the shape a rod with a hook on the end. The head in the shape of a dragon head.
	The Sentence being, " From Whence this metal came,  and the waters from which you draw your name,  I request your purpose on this plane." 
	at which point the key is thrown to the ground and the animal, whatever the type will come to the key, and as long as your invitation is true and you mean them no harm, they will "sit" with you and tell the story, or knowledge rather, of their lives. all of them. When the creature is done it will simply walk away. This can only ever be done once per creature with the same key.  
	This method is thought by some to have originally been an ancient command developed by the Faine Elders, or more correctly, developed by the Dragons and the Corrupted Precipitant as a way to force the Faine Blood to report any and all information that has ever happened. Possibly created in a benevolent pretense, but later corrupted and abused to control and horde that control.
	

