Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2015-09-13T19:35:30-04:00

====== Ev'ryyndamas ======
@brotherofmetal @precipitant @origins @article @mixeddata @chrondata 

The creator of The Thousand Fires Hammer.

Also known as "The Hammer That Needs No Forge", "The Hammer of a Thousand Fires", "The Thousand Fires Hammer", "Great Hammer of the Forge of Eternal Fires" 

Related Content:
The Brothers of Metal

Time Scale: Stone

Odem: Ryyndal


Of the making of the Hammer and the Shield Oath

The greatest smith of the Ev'Relach Sogema (The Brothers of Metal) was Ev'Ryyndamas, the First born of Rynndal's thought and he alone mastered completely the harnessing of the Fire of Change. His first great work was "The hammer that needs no forge". Ev'Rynndamas toiled in the "Chamber of Endless Fire" for 5 "Stone" years (approx 15 sun years) and when it was complete he emerged from the depths of the The Endless Fire to harden it in the Antesia -an ice melt stream, one of the first four streams Anthis dwelt in. At the bitter mountain pass named Undariat, near the Antesia, Ev'ryyndamas laid himself down to rest for he was weary from his toils and his travels. He set his hammer next to where he was to lay down and before he rested, called upon [[Ninanddrah]] -the eldest of the Golden SparrowHawks? to watch over him and his hammer lest from foul storm come and threaten to bury them in their slumber. For Ev'ryyndamas knew his hammer had joined the realm of the thinking and speaking and was also weary as a babe newly born, and he cared for it as his very own child.

Ninaddrah perched in a high outcrop of gold-flecked marble which was her favorite to rest upon, and remained in that place with out food, drink or even rest for 30 days while Ev'ryyndamas regained his strength. In the golding crest of the thirty first day a fell wind crept up the mountain from the north and brought with it a penetrating sleet. Ev'ryyndamas did not stir at its coming and Ninaddrah tried to leap down from that high place and wake him from his stone slumber. But alas, her feet were encrusted with ice and could not make the flight to revive her charge. Stuck fast to the marble, a terror crept into her mind of a coming threat. She had seen many storms of ice and wind in these high peaks and passes but none were carried upon them a bitter darkness as she now felt coming up over the mountain. Fearing her own life and the life of her charge, she wailed a shrill and deafening warning but Ev'ryyndamas did not wake. A second time she wailed and struggled in vain.

At the end of it, a shudder of stone and ice echoed across the peaks. She feared to wail a third time; she knew all too well the power of the falling of mountains. She flapped her wings but the cold was creeping its way into every part of her. Limp was her buffet and she began to panic. She could see her charge was now fully covered with a sheet of clear ice, but the hammer at his side resisted the cold and held back the encroaching doom. Though Ninaddrah was ignorant to the trappings of man and their crafts of metal, she knew their was life in the majestic hammer. One last time she sang out. A beam of sunlight like a gap in the clouds shone out across the distance and bathed the hammer in a righteous gleam. She knew the danger had just grown by vast amounts as the shudder confirmed but there was no time to be lost.

The hammer of Ev'ryyndamas did not understand the language of the SparrowHawk? and did not awaken from the beams of light. But when the earth spoke its language of warning and doom, there was a deep stirring in its thoughts. Percieving now with keen acuracy the danger they were in, radiated outwards a searing heat as from the Forge of Endless Fire to free and awaken its master and brother. Ev'rynndamas being now freed from his bitter tomb, lept to his feet and clutched his right hand; for the unbridled heat of a raging newborn had badly burned him. Then he heard the sundering of the mountain and he stood for a moment, silent, as a wall of white terror rushed down toward him in the bitter pass.

Though he was badly burned and was stalling in shock for a moment, he had rested fully and felt all his strength had returned. Ev'ryyndamas calmly bent over to retrieve his beloved, who was still valiantly holding back the ice from his feet, and clasped it with both hands. Now with the full heat and power of a thousand forges, Ev'ryyndamas and his hammer were of one mind and purpose.

Ev'ryyndamas began to sing an ancient and sacred song only known to the deep eternal fires and the smiths in the Thousand Fold Forges. So deep and so brooding were the lines that any creature then residing on the peaks fell in a dream of eternal spirits and fires of creation. It was then that a set of ten waves of fire and heat bloomed forth from the hammer and naught but a single drop of water as the ice fell to him with the speed of a diving eagle. A wall of vapor surrounded him as the passing deluge of ice and water crashed in around him. The pounding and roaring of it all was deafening and terrible to behold but his eye glimmered with a smile at the power coursing through his body into the hammer and from the hammer into him.

In what seemed like an eternity, he had learned much from his hammer; how the heat was a physical transformation of love just like crystals of water was the love of Anthis manifested by an equally amazing transformation of heat. As the two met they created a new state that neither could have achieved without the other. Fully immersed and utterly enthralled by the majesty of it all, Ev'ryyndamas felt like the forge of life in his chest was shunted and pressed shut when it all came to a deafening, silent, end but for the ringing in his ears.

Steam rose from the stone around him and allowed the whisps of it to coallese in around him and cool his skin. The beauty of the moment was gone now, and a grim visage came over him, remembering the high perch. He looked up to her high mount of gold flecked marble and sighed when he saw her still standing there. Although he was glad to see her, a flash of anger and confusion flashed in his eyes. Lowering the hammer in his right hand and raising his left to his mouth he called to her.
"Why did you not wake me? Did you not see the danger with those keen eyes? Did you not perceive this fell wind and sleet in your high pass? Is there no vigilance left in the Golden Birds of Od'Muwinn? Is there no voice left in the song of Ninaddrah?"
A distant thunder clap was the only response.
"Answer me now Goldwing! For I wish to know, as your charge in Undariat; What is the reason you still perch, to leave my hammer..." raising his hammer high in the air "... to fulfill your oath!?"
It was then that Ev'ryyndamas' heart faltered and his heat failed, for he now saw why fair Ninaddrah did not not answer; she still as stone. Her beak still slightly cracked open, her wings pressed to the gold flecked marble. There was no gleam in those eyes that once shone like the sun -she was passed into the next realm, to be with Muwinn for evermore.

Ev'ryyndamas dropped to his knees, still staring at the high perch, with tears forming in his eyes -for he loved Ninaddrah -for her beauty, for her songs, for her brilliant light. He whispered lightly to the stony visage so low that it was more thought than word;
"Oh, Ninaddrah. Wings of gold. Child of Muwinn. What has happened here. What have I done. How long did I slumber, that you would turn to stone in the pass of Undariat, in your lofty perch you so loved. How many times, in the end, did you call to me in vain attempts to rouse me? Forgive me, Daughter of the Sun." As he wept, he swore a sacred oath; To be the shield of the House of Ddrah, to serve them should they desire to call upon him or if danger were to ever reach out for them. He swore his solemn oath to his blood itself, made of the metal of Rynndal -who heard him and wept for his child's pain. This oath was now unbreakable, to the last of his line.

Many hours he remained there in the cutting sleet -as he had forgotten utterly the hammer and the heat. Twelve times he repeated his oath in his meditation, as was the custom of his brethren; one for each of the Odem, and they heard him. At length the brother rose from his oath binding and turned from the pass of Undariat, never to return while the bondage of his mortal coil remained.

The sleet had turned to a heavy snowfall during his trek back down the long mountain trail. It had been snowing heavily for hours and was now close to thigh height, yet the wielder of The Thousand Fires Hammer strode unfettered and unaware as a path was cleaved before him. The snow, shedding its crystalline form turned to water and then vapor in a blink, hissing and sputtering at his coming. Not one drop of water touched his skin on that solemn walk. Even the tears that flowed down from his eyes were lifted into the air like smoke before reaching the cheek.

Near the fork of SkyWall Cleft, that joined the main path with the Forges Way -that would return him to his home at the Forges of Eternal Fire; he stopped. He finally paid notice to a glimmer that had been in his eye ever since he first looked up at Ninaddrah's Perch, laying upon his left cheek. Touching it gently as to lift a drop of water, his eyes spread wide and drew in a deep breath.
"What is this?" he whispered.
"Where all other tears burst into vapor, and the bones of this fell avalanche flee before the Hammer and his master, you would remain?"
After a moment he spoke again as he gently prodded at it, for it seemed solid like ice, yet more brilliant than starlight.
"Where did you come from sweet glimmer of the stars?,"
"For you shine like white fire from the heart of my forge, and indeed my eye is beginning to ache as though I stare directly at Muwinn herself in all her glory!" he spoke with rising tones.
Ev'rynndamas then tried to pluck the star from his cheek, for it seemed lodged and reluctant to being removed. A blinding painshot from his cheek to the depths of his mind and erupted from his eye. He let go of the star on his cheek and still the pain did not fully recede.

Forgetting the hammer completely for a second time, he dropped it at his feet and clutched his head with both hands. A roar of agony sounded through the Skywall Cleft and was swiftly cut off. The protective shield of heat from the Hammer now subsided, the cold water that had been building up around him and following him down the deep cleft came rushing in around him, violently sweeping him and the Hammer down the main trail. They tumbled like rocks in a landslide.

Though blinded from an ever growing brilliance of light in his left eye, he regained a measure of control and righted himself in the growing torrent. In vain he searched for the hammer, sliding ever down the mountain in a writhing chaos. Then, when his heart was beginning to falter in the face of the helplessness, a giant plume of steam burst from the edge of the water as the hammer bounced off a rock and visually crested the tumult.
"There you are my love!" he bellowed in deep cleft. His voice echoed down into the whole valley below and it could be heard from a great distance. He dove headlong into the rising waters with no regard for his own safety and caught the hammer with his right hand. Instantly upon grasping the shaft of the hammer, still warm amidst the icy cold waters, he regained his strength. The flow lurched and receded from the awesome power of the hammer in an orb of deafening steam and noise once again. His feet landed on solid ground and opened his eyes. Within moments the wrath of Undariat was over, passing down the mountain, taking with it the pain in his eye.

He stood there panting from the effort and dazed from the shock. The bright, yet opaque, white that filled his left eye had now faded to whisps and shimmering shapes. It confused his mind for a time and he attempted to blink it away, turning his head from side to side. He then looked, in wonder, at his hammer. With his right eye it was still the same beautiful hammer of his own making. With his left however it was now something wholly different; a swirling, coherent form that twisted in patterns of arresting complexity and beauty, like a living tendril of smoke, yet glowing like the embers of a blue fire.

He spoke to his hammer, asking if it had sustained any unseen damage. Curiously, the swirl shifted in harmony with the words it spoke into Ev'ryyndamas' mind.
"Yes Brother-Master?, I am ever strong in your hands and I long now, if our task here is done, to return to the womb of the earth and ply my Brother-Metal? into wondrous design! As was my charge in this world!"
At this Ev'ryyndamas smiled. Lifting the hammer, he said to the mountains and sky, "Let us now, with all haste, return to our home and choose a great ingot of Gold and of Silver!".
Silently thanking Ninaddrah for the gift of sight she had bestowed upon him. He turned and made way for his deep dwelling.



1. Though the Brothers of Metal were exceptionally versed in all things metal, none had yet discovered "The Tears of Meark", as well none yet had inhabited by any entity that could have heard their oaths. In the coming ages, the brethren would discover them in wonder and apprehension. None, however, would claim them or call them in their oaths, for they felt these new metals were weak and did not share the same bond.


2. In the shadow realm Ev'ryyndamas dwelt there ever after with Ninaddrah. Travelers say they can still be heard faintly singing haunting verses when the sleet rises up over the mountain to claim those who might try to rest in that bitter pass in the mountains.
